
It all started one day when I was perusing the company intranet. I saw a group named "Apple Music Club". I am drawn to all things music just as kids are to candy (or should I say, iPad?). Make it bee to flowers. I also notice that it is an active group.

The group gets together once a month to play songs together. There is a wiki page and any one part of the club can propose a song and opt for a role (vocal, guitar, bass, drums, keyboard...). Generally there is a link to the song in iTunes and YouTube (and chords/tabs), so others can check it out and if it is a song to their liking and ability, they sign up for an available role. Here is the one important thing. You just assume that everyone will perform exactly like the original and practice on your own. On the event day, you all get together (very likely meeting each other for the first time too) and play the song. You get two tries. The first time is supposedly the rehearsal, where any one can stop each other, decide on how/when to solo and when to stop and some details. And take 2 is the real deal. So that's about it - the first time and a final time.

Given this format, of course, we never fail to do our standard joke. After the first attempt, we all shout "encore" when it is a given that they are getting a second chance. Everyone bows, applauds, laughs and then jam a second time. But this seems to work incredibly well. Since there is no compulsion, only folks who are very interested and motivated enough sign up and they practice very well too. 

When November's session opened up, I didn't have a song to propose but figured I could join in one. I looked through the songs and picked one. The song is "Baby Love" by Joan Osborne. A very nice song in A minor (blues). iTunes says I have listened to this over 100 times. I kept practicing the song as much as possible. There was this one time when I was deeply engrossed. Suddenly Lavanyaa stormed into the room and says, "Beethoven?". My mind raced and was wondering what she was going to say next and slowly pondered, "did you just hear my one line improv that used the starting line from the fifth symphony?", and she smilingly remarks, "Did you hear me screaming your name 10 times? No, I don't know about your playing but you are becoming deaf". Ah, now I get it, so that was the Beethoven connection to me.

There was this one day when I attended a music concert and was so thrilled that I binged a bit on guitar practice that night. Probably about 3 hours. My index finger gave out. I couldn't type the keyboard the next day. Normally this is supposed to happen after I achieve my peak, not before I even get started. Anyways, I am forced to keep my practice very light and more concentrate mentally on the notes and timing.

The big day arrived and needless to say, was very nervous. But also excited. I promptly forgot to take the pluck (pick) and then remembered it at the last minute and thought hard about where I would keep it safe. Decided that the cute small pocket (adjacent to the right regular front pocket in a Jeans pant) would be an excellent choice. But the "pick and pocket" combination triggered an old memory. A shiver went through me when I realized I had used this pocket before. There was once a time when I had a toothpick and thought, oh, look at this cute little pocket and put it in there. It was supposed to be a few seconds placeholder and I was supposed to use it immediately and dispose it. But I forgot. After a little while, I sat down, and said something like, "$*#& &*#! #*(&#(*$&(#&*$, I am never putting a sharp object in my pocket again". Now I know of one safe thing to use this pocket for. Not tooth picks but Guitar Picks!

Anyways, I arrive at the Theater and everyone's playing everything at once. The manufacturers might as well could have sold us Amplifiers without volume knobs since everything was dialed up to the maximum. Someone was even asking, "How can I turn up the volume on this puppy?" (patting his guitar). It was already the case that you could land a Jet behind us and we wouldn't hear it. I nervously plug in my guitar and hit a few chords and notes and it seems to be just as loud as everyone else. Yay!

I had got this small tuner that you attach to the end of the fretboard and based on the vibration would tell what the tuning of a string is. I tuned it once. And played a bit. I still kept incessantly looking at the tuner after every few notes. And then something went in my head, "Dei, the chances of you playing a wrong note is a few orders of magnitude more likely than the string going out of tune by your 5 minute 5 line melody", and I promptly removed the tuner and figured if should something go wrong, I will just blame Fender.

There was also the part where I had to plan a lot about how much water to drink and when to take my restroom breaks. And during one of those breaks, I enter and see someone with long hair and swear, "Damn..I am in the wrong restroom (again)". Thankfully turns out to be a guy with long hair. Very long hair. I am relieved. Okay, let's not talk about that in detail. That's for a separate post whoese title will be suffixed with NFSW => NSFNP. Not Safe For Normal People.

I figured my song would be one of the first few and I would be done and I could sit back, relax and enjoy the rest of the show. But as my luck would have it, my song was the last but one. There was one time when all the orchestra was ready and everyone was waiting for the drummer to count "1, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4" and then realized that the drummer was missing. [He showed up a few minutes late]. There was the other time when the song was looking to be a total  bomb. I figured to myself, alright, at worst, I can now only be the second worst performance of the night and then it hit me. Two people playing in that song were part of my song team too. Damn it. As it turns out the song was okay after all. It was one of those songs where it was cool to be "as random as you want to be". who knew! Kids these days and the music they listen to! 

Finally, it is my turn. And we have a small confusion of who starts. Drummer says, "I start at 1. That's it.". Bass guy says, "I follow you" (to me). The singer turns around to me and says, "Can you give me a signal when I have to start? I can't remember if it is 2 or 4 bars later.". The sax and trumpet guys say, "Ah, we just follow the bass guitar". So I turn out to be the starter of the dominos here. Alright, it's just the start and then I can follow them. A 1, a 2, a 1 2 3 4 .. and we all start to jam. The rest is honestly one big blur.

I remember the part where I look at the singer when it is her turn. I also remembered the incident when the drummer drops his stick and I stop my playing to pick it up, hand it to him, and then somehow we both managed to pick up as though we never left. [a small applause there]. Our take one goes surprising well. People were nodding and rocking. That wasn't bad, I think to myself. We do a second and final attempt. Comes out much better. I see that not just me but everyone has corrected the sub-optimal pieces and is in full groove. It all comes together very well. And just like that it's all over. Everyone Hi-Five each other. And everyone say to each other, "Wow, that is lot of fun!". Which is what I was going for. Just plain fun. I thoroughly enjoyed it. I think someone recorded it. So it would be interesting to watch that video and see how we performed as a whole. While I can't say as confidently about my guitar playing, I can say very confidently about the "having fun" part that I am a rock star!

